ABSTRACT: 

India is one of the busiest countries in the world in terms of road transportation. Street lights are a great necessity in modern life for road safety. Providing street lighting is one of the important and expensive obligations of the city. Street Lights consumes approximately 10-38% of the total power building in total cities around the world as per the survey. In our project we have used Internet of Things (IoT). As of now, most of the connections are taking place as Device - Device from - Human to Device. To keep roads safe, it is important to detect faulty street lamps. So that here we have come up with an idea of automatic feedback system to know the exact location of non-functional streetlights and sends a notification alert to the concerned authority. Due to malfunctioning of street lights and some other reasons while driving in rural areas at night time can lead to vehicle accidents and encourage crime in that area. Unexpectedly if an accident occurs it will be notified to concerned person via alert message through our accident alert system with a module which is inbuilt in the street poles. In addition to this, to reduce crime and ensure women safety we have introduced a concept of safety switch. If a woman feels unsafe or even harassed by someone, they can press this switch and it will alert a police or security near to them through an alert message. If the crime occurs through a gun fire or any other fire blast or some other fire accident with high sound will be detected and analysed by the pre-defined model and if this matches it will alert a concerned authority that an unusual event occurs in that place. In order improve the standard of living in rural areas we have come up with an idea of smart street light automation, in this the light will glow at its full efficiency only when the movement detected nearby street poles and by using this idea, we can save a lot of energy and help the government economically and socially. We also built an air indexing concept in street lamps, in which the air quality index of a certain place is monitored continuously and alerts the authorized committee if the air quality index exceeds the fixed value. These ideas and concepts can be implemented in an existing street light by just adding sensors and controllers. In this, industrial standard sensors are used which gives everlasting life. This is also a cost-efficient project with highly innovative and feasible features.


SCOPE OF THE PROJECT: SCOPE OF THE PROJECT:
*Safety Switch 
*accident alert system
*smart street light with 
*motion detection 
*shot spotter and Air 
*Quality
